Hello everybody and welcome.
So first of all let's whiz round to the side view and delete our cube.
We will not need the cube in this particular lecture as we're going to be drawing.
So we need to add a new object.
We can use the ad menu at the top or shift in age as always and then go down to grease pencil.
Now there are a couple of options but we're going to pick blank because we cannot create our own drawing.
Well we've done that.
Almost nothing changes but you can see in the outline and now we've got a new type of object called
a grease pencil.
Okay let's try this out some more.
What happens if we go into edit mode and we start editing it gives us some options and tools over here
on the left.
And it must be noted at this point in time that on the right if we press the end key to bring our properties
panel there is a tool's tab now and obviously at the moment we've still got the select box.
That's the tool we're using.
And if we go down here and select something different it will change what the tool type is that become
important in a moment when we go from edit mode to drawing mode.
And now if you look on the right it gets quite interesting we've got a brush type.
What does that mean.
Well now we can click and we can scribble on blender which is really really cool and we can switch over
to different types of drawing which I think is pretty awesome.
Now depending on the style you're going for and what sort of technology you have.
I've also got a whack on tablets so I can draw things a lot more easily than perhaps someone with a
mouse.
But there are tools you can employ with the grease pencil that will help you massively.
Now one of the things I will quickly do to get rid of everything that I've drawn here is go back to
edit and then just press a to select and you can see the way that these lines are made up.
They exist in 3D space and because we were looking at this in an awful graphic perspective it's it's
flat it's on one plane but it exists in 3D space which means we can rotate things around and match them
up later on or move them as well.
And just like when we were selecting linked vertices before the vertices that make up these drawings
we can also press the L key on let's just clear the selection first select one press L and we can move
this bit of the drawing individually so we can modify things afterwards so if we don't get it right
first time it's fine you can move things around or if you're drawing something and then need to move
it into position that can be really useful.
Okay let's go and select all again and just press delete.
There we go.
I'm going to look background from the side and go back to draw mode.
So when it comes to drawing we've obviously got different pen types that we can pick.
How about actually making sure we can draw something that's sensible.
Well there are a couple of options you can do if you hold down the old key as you're drawing it would
lock the grease pencil to vertical and horizontal lines that can be very very useful but it can also
be very restrictive.
How do we draw a straight line from one place to another.
Well you've probably already guessed there are tools down the side for this.
So I can click the line tool.
I can go from this corner here to that corner there.
Now it doesn't automatically set it at that point.
You have to apply it and we can do that live of the Bedell mouse button to confirm that line or the
enter key.
And this gives you the option to just rearrange it and position it's a bit more accurately.
One of the things that does cause us a few issues in this case is unfortunate we cannot zoom in and
out using the scroll wheel whilst we're in this view.
You'd have to actually be zoomed into the correct level from the very beginning.
So if I go ahead and press enter to confirm that we can see that it's not quite a line but for a sketch
that's absolutely fine.
If we go back to the drawing tool we can just change how this behaves when we're drawing with it.
So if we hold down the shift key whilst withdrawing this can be incredibly useful for those using a
mouse.
It will add a delay to the drawing.
Now it may look like you can't make sharp corners but you can you go back to the line and come back
again.
And what this enables you to do is make much smoother lines.
If I tried to do the same shape with just the mouse you can see here it's just not happening.
It's so much better using that tool even if I pick up my stylus and try and go along there you can see
it's it's better but I could still benefit from having this.
I can then trace around much much quicker.
And that is one of the key things.
Anything that improves your speed and workflow it's got to be a winner so one final thing that will
help you in the upcoming challenge and using the grease pencil in general.
Let's go to edit mode and delete everything again go back to draw mode and let's draw a straight line
are along the bottom here that's absolutely fine and I'm just using the mouse at the moment I've got
a stylus in front of me but during most of this I'll try using a mouse.
Let's let's just sketch up a very quick scene.
So I've already said I think my lamp is going to be jumping onto a box or something like that.
So we've got that part of it done.
If if we come out and we need to confirm that shape first back into object mode we can add another grease
pencil now if we go into draw mode on that and just draw something really quickly let's say this is
are our entity that we're going to use and confirm that we've now got a group to grease pencil so you've
got a scene itself and a character and of course what that enables us to do is now in object mood mode.
We can move these individually.
Now remember all of these objects have an origin point as well so at the moment this would rotate by
default around its origin points and not in the middle of it.
And that's something to just bear in mind when you're creating objects away from where you originally
create the grease pencil object.
You may want to create everything in the center or later on like this area.
Here we may decide that we want it to pivots around different place and just like before.
Let's say we wanted it here we could select the 3d cursor place in the middle here and of course it
will be smack bang in the middle any way.
And then we can right click set the origin to the 3d cursor or even geometry if it was separated out.
So this one here for instance.
So if we go ahead select the selection tool again and select here.
I want the origin to be at the bottom on this particular object because then when we look at the item
it's location z equals zero.
I know that I can place it smack bang on the floor let's say we jumped over here I can make sure that
that reads zero and it's in the same position vertically as it was when it was over here and the great
thing of having the separate objects is it means we can move them individually as well.
Pretty cool huh.
And if we did want to put it together into one scene we can select both of these and go control and
J.
And it will move all of that data into one grease pencil object or if you've accidentally managed to
put your drawing all in one object which is easy to do in your focusing if you're in edit mode remember
you can select one of the vertices press the al-Qaeda select linked press the p key to separate and
we can do the selected points when we do that we get a separate grease pencil object that we can then
name appropriately now bear in mind here you can see that it wasn't complete we've not completely selected
all the items.
Something to bear in mind but it's not important at this point.
Okay.
With that in mind it's time for your challenge okay.
So your challenge is to go ahead and draw your scene and lamp in Blender using the grease pencil.
Now one of the things I would recommend that you do is separate the lamp from the rest of the scene
so that it is its own grease pencil object.
And that's gonna enable you later on to move the lamp independently.
And if you don't do that whilst you're drawing it Remember you can always separate that geometry or
the lines that you've created later in edit mode.
I'm also going to try and make my lamp more three dimensional so I'm not just going to draw it from
the side.
I'm going to whiz round and draw it from the top and from the front as well which will give our objects
a bit more three dimensionality a bit more presence in the scene.
It's going to enable me to change the direction later on.
The lamp is facing and will also require me to go into edit mode and move those lines individually to
the right place.
Because when you're looking from the top the bottom etc. is just going to draw where the 3D cursor is
from.
So you could put it there first or just move it there afterwards.
The choice is yours but go ahead pause a video now and give that a go.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on over into blender and draw the scene and lamp OK.
So I've opened up my animated lamp scene.
I've currently been working on so everything's all set up there.
I'm going to look at it from the side and I'm going to add in a grease pencil.
I'm going to go into draw mode line.
I'm going to open up my tools and make the line a dark line probably a bit thick.
I'm going to use draw ink as the one I'm going to use here and I'm going to make a platform maybe five
either side of this.
So one two three four five One two three four four roughly around that.
Okay perfect.
And then I need a box.
So fortunately we already have a box here.
Let's pop this one just there.
Perfect.
So that's the scene set up so I'm going to cool that scene.
And then we need the lamp itself.
So let's go ahead and create a new objects object mode and create myself a new blank grease pencil and
I'm going to call it lamp straight away.
Okay brilliant.
Now I'm going to add a bit more detail to my lamp than perhaps necessary but I do think it's quite fun
to do some confetti for anyway.
I'm going to hide my scene so I can work on my lamp independently.
Now what are we going to do here.
Well I'm going to start off by just drawing it face on and then I'm gonna make my lamp a little more
3-D so that I can manipulate it a bit more later on when I'm putting together a storyboard.
So the first thing that I want to do here is obviously being draw mode.
And let's go ahead.
I'm going to make it five in the side.
I can't see my big squares there is it's gonna be quite a chunky lamp but that's okay.
I'll accept that.
You can have this arch going over.
I want to come out to maybe here and then I'm gonna come back again and having it Central is quite important
because it's going to enable us to do certain things later on that perhaps we would not be able to do
otherwise so there we go that's that's a good approximation of what we want the lamp to look like I'm
not gonna draw a vertical bit down here because I wants to make this a bit more 3D and I really use
a couple of circles to do that.
So let's do the base first of all we know roughly how big the base is going to be.
I can hold down shift to make sure it's the right proportions.
So it's not too squished either way.
And we can move that before we confirm it as well which is really really useful.
So that's the base that I want to get rid of that middle line going through so I'm going to select it
and delete the points so that already looks a ton better.
And if we have a look at it from the front go back into draw mode I can make an arch going across here
as well.
And then that looks pretty sweet.
So we can also add a circle to the front here.
Let's go ahead and do that.
I think it's out there we need to make sure we got circled who selected.
Now this is quite difficult to work out of course because we can't really see the other bits.
Now if you've already solidified it that's not a problem we can come back later and sort that's out
in edit mode.
So here's one of the points.
Press the El key for length and move it to approximately the right location and then scale it in slightly.
Now we should find that that's done everything I need to.
And then all we need to do is from the top link these two together so we can go back into draw mode.
I can get my straight lines and straight lines.
By the way they're not cheating.
Straight lines are a great way of being able to draw things quickly if you're using the mouse.
Now we go we've got the top bit of the lamp.
No not quite.
It did look good for a moment.
We need to go and grab those bits and move them up so we'll press select one from each of these two
lines that we made and press the elk was round to the side press GZ and lift them up.
And there we go.
We've got our lamp made and done.
Essentially we've now sketched in the three dimensions.
Now if you've not gone quite this far that's absolutely fine if you just stuck with 2D it has no problem
with that.
So let's bring scene back in.
See how we sit.
Excellent.
Let's go back into object mode with round here and let's place our objects over here.
Now the great thing of the origin for this grease pencil because we built over the center of the scene
we now can make sure that it's sat on the ground exactly every single time.
If the origin was elsewhere then that would be more of a problem and I would recommend for something
that we're going to move like this and place on the ground just like we did with the chess set.
We make sure that the origin is at the bottom.
In this particular case.
So we can align things properly.
Okay.
I think we're done for this particular lecture.
Great.
How did you guys get on looking forward to seeing your scenes sketched out and ready to go.
Did you go for a more sketchy look.
There's nothing wrong with that at this point in time.
This is all about setting up the scene ready to make a storyboard with.
Share your scene set up over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.